=== PDF PAGE 1 ===
THE BRIDGEHAMPTON UNION FREE SCHOOL DISTRICT
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
AND
THE BRIDGEHAMPTON TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION
JULY 1, 2025 TO JUNE 30, 2030

=== PDF PAGE 2 ===
i
TABLE OF CONTENTS
MISSION STATEMENT......................................................................................................................................................1
INTRODUCTION.................................................................................................................................................................2
ARTICLE I – RECOGNITION.............................................................................................................................................2
ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS.............................................................................................................................................. 2
ARTICLE III – NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURE...............................................................................................................3
ARTICLE IV - ASSOCIATION PRIVILEGES AND PROCEDURES.............................................................................. 3
ARTICLE V – GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.................................................................................................................... 5
ARTICLE VI – TEACHING EMPLOYMENT AND CONDITIONS.................................................................................6
ARTICLE VII – SALARIES FOR THE 2025-26 THROUGH 2029-30 SCHOOL YEARS.............................................14
ARTICLE VIII - TEACHER BENEFITS...........................................................................................................................20
ARTICLE IX – MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS......................................................................................................... 28
ARTICLE X - DURATION................................................................................................................................................ 28
ARTICLE XI -.....................................................................................................................................................................29
SIGNATORY PAGE...........................................................................................................................................................30
APPENDIX A..................................................................................................................................................................... 31
APPENDIX B.................................................................................................................................................... 32
APPENDIX C.................................................................................................................................................... 42
MISSION STATEMENT FOR BRIDGEHAMPTON UNION FREE SCHOOL DISTRICT
i

=== PDF PAGE 3 ===
ii
We,  as  Bridgehampton  community  members,  are  responsible  for  and  benefit  from 
comprehensive education.
The purpose of the Bridgehampton School is to provide an educational system which will  
serve our community and develop responsible citizens who are self-motivated, life-long learners.  
To achieve this purpose, we will expand opportunities for positive involvement in our educational 
system by community members, parents, teachers, and students.
To prepare our students to lead productive lives in the future, we will strive to develop  
literate individuals who are caring, confident, and open-minded.  We are committed to programs  
and an atmosphere that nourish academic excellence, social awareness, and moral responsibility  
and a preparation for responsible career choices.
In addition to the traditional 3R's and computer competency, our curriculum will focus on 
critical thinking, effective communication, problem solving, the enjoyment of reading, and an  
appreciation of the visual and performing arts.
Our ultimate goal is that our students will realize their maximum potential and demand  
nothing less than excellence from themselves, from each other, and from the community.
1

=== PDF PAGE 4 ===
1
INTRODUCTION
The parties to this Agreement are committed to the Mission Statement of the Bridgehampton  
Union Free School District and pledge joint support and effort to develop the conditions for success 
pledged therein.  This Agreement was developed and should be viewed as an important part of our 
collective efforts to ensure that the Bridgehampton Union Free School District is successful in  
achieving its Mission.
Both parties to this Agreement endorse opportunities for all employees to become involved in the 
decision making process.  This decision making process shall include open dialogue in which  
issues are presented, defined, discussed, and resolved.  This shall be a process in which those  
affected by a decision participate, either directly or through representation of their choosing.  
Employees are expected to contribute to the educational environment of the District through  
various "AD HOC" continuing, and developing groups in areas of professional expertise where  
decisions are made which significantly impact the educational environment.
ARTICLE I
RECOGNITION
The Bridgehampton Board of Education recognizes the Bridgehampton Teachers' Association,  
NYSUT, AFT, AFL-CIO, as the exclusive bargaining unit for all teachers (excluding per diem  
substitutes and replacement or long-term permanent substitutes not meeting the definition of  
teacher set forth in Article II herein), part-time teachers, teaching assistants, and the school nurse  
employed by the Board.
ARTICLE II
DEFINITIONS
The Bridgehampton Board of Education and the Bridgehampton Teachers' Association agree to the 
use of abbreviated titles in the Agreement.  Those titles which will be abbreviated and in constant 
use throughout this Agreement are: 
The Board - The Board of Education of the Bridgehampton School District #9.
The Superintendent - The Chief School District Administrator of the Bridgehampton Primary  
Grade and High School.
Teacher - All full-time teachers, librarians, guidance counselors, guidance director,  
school psychologist, speech professional, nurse and replacements or long  
term permanent substitutes in vacant but encumbered positions after 30  
days.
2

=== PDF PAGE 5 ===
2
Nurse - A person with an R.N. in Nursing functioning full-time in the School  
District.
Part-Time Teacher - Any person performing instructional duties at least 1/3 of the normal teacher's 
workload or work time.
Teaching Assistant - As defined in the New York State Education Law and Regulations of the  
Commissioner of Education for the State of New York.
While speech professional(s) and the school nurse(s) are members of the BTA, in the event the  
District is unable to successfully locate an employee to fill such functions after having posted such 
vacancies for a minimum of two (2) weeks, the District may utilize an independent contractor to  
provide such services for the remainder of the school year at issue. 
ARTICLE III
NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURE
A. The parties agree to meet during the spring prior to the expiration of this Agreement to  
commence negotiations for a successor Agreement.
B. The  Board  and  Superintendent  in  accordance  with  specific  proposals  related  to 
negotiations agree to furnish all reasonable, available information concerning financial details  
related to proposals made.
ARTICLE IV
ASSOCIATION PRIVILEGES AND PROCEDURES
A. The parties shall make available to each other, upon request, any and all information,  
statistics, and records relevant to the proper administration or enforcement of the agreement.
B. There shall be no reprisals of any kind taken against any teacher because of membership  
in the Association or participation in its activities.
C. The Board within seven (7) days will provide the Association by e-mail with a copy of  
the approved minutes of all Board meetings, both regular and special.
D. Dues Deduction
The District agrees to payroll deduction of BTA and its affiliates’ membership dues.  
Members will authorize the payroll deduction of membership dues in accordance with the terms of 
the signed authorization card. Such authorization will remain in effect and continue from year-to-
year unless revoked by the member in writing to the BTA with a copy to the District’s business  
3

=== PDF PAGE 6 ===
3
office in accordance with the dues deduction authorization or the member is no longer an employee 
of the District.
Upon receipt of the written authorization directing payroll deduction, the District will  
deduct and remit the dues from the regular salary of unit members to the BTA on a bi-weekly basis 
beginning with the second pay period in September through June 30th of each school year. For new 
hires,  such  deduction  is  to  begin  no  later  than  thirty  (30)  days  after  the  effective  date  of 
employment, provided written authorization for payroll deduction has been received.
The authorized dues deductions shall be transferred to the BTA as soon as practicable,  
but in no event more than ten (10) calendar days from the date of the deductions.
The District will notify the BTA of all new hires within the bargaining unit within five  
(5) business days of hire. Such notice will include hire and start date, building assignment and  
contact information.
For each payroll period for which dues are deducted, the District will provide the BTA  
with a breakdown of dues deductions by member. Should a member who has authorized dues  
deduction be removed from the District’s payroll such employee’s membership in the BTA shall be 
continued upon the employee’s return to the payroll.
The  Association  shall  indemnify  and  hold  the  District  harmless  against  any  and  all 
claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken 
or not taken by the District for the purposes of complying with any of the provisions of this  
subdivision.
The District agrees to an additional payroll deduction for NYSUT Vote Cope contributions 
at no cost to the District. Such contribution will be authorized by individual bargaining unit  
members on a form mutually agreed to by the district and BTA.
E. At one meeting of each year, the Board of Education will have a representative(s) present  
to meet with representatives of the Teachers' Association at the Association's request.  The  
Teachers'  Association  representatives  will  discuss  their  agenda  for  the  meeting  with  the 
Superintendent one month in advance of the requested meeting date.  The Board may add items to 
the agenda if it chooses.  Any meetings with the Board representative(s) beyond the one meeting  
will be at the discretion of the Board.
F. Union Release Time
The District shall provide the BTA with twenty (20) hours of paid release time per school  
year, to be used for Association business. Such hours shall be allocated and utilized by Association 
officers as determined by the President of the Association.  Release time shall be scheduled in a  
manner that does not unreasonably interfere with the operations of the District, and the Association 
shall provide reasonable advance notice of the use of such time.
4

=== PDF PAGE 7 ===
4
G.           Management-Labor Committee  
The District and the BTA shall establish a Management-Labor Committee for the purpose 
of promoting effective communication and addressing matters of mutual concern. The Committee 
shall meet four (4) times per school year, unless the parties mutually agree to additional meetings. 
The Committee shall consist of two (2) to three (3) representatives appointed by the District and  
two (2) to three (3) representatives appointed by the BTA. A written agenda shall be prepared and 
circulated to all Committee members no later than seven (7) calendar days prior to each meeting.  
Items for the agenda may be submitted by either party. 
ARTICLE V
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
Definition  of  Grievance:  A  grievance  is  a  claim by  any  teacher,  group  of  teachers,  or  the 
Association based on any claimed violation, misinterpretation, or inequitable application of the  
terms of this agreement.
Level One:
A. A teacher with a grievance will first discuss it directly with the Principal within seven (7)  
school days of the date of the grievance with the objective of resolving the matter informally.  The 
teacher may have an Association representative present the grievance if he/she wishes. 
B. If the aggrieved person is not satisfied with the disposition of his/her grievance at Level  
One (A) or if no decision has been rendered within seven (7) school days, he/she shall submit  
his/her grievance in specific terms, in writing, to the Superintendent.  The Superintendent shall  
respond in writing within seven (7) school days after receipt of the written grievance.
Level Two:
If the aggrieved person is not satisfied with the disposition of his/her grievance at Level One, or if 
no decision has been rendered within seven (7) school days after he/she  has met with the  
Superintendent, the grievance may be filed in writing with the Board.
Within seven (7) school days after receiving the written grievance, the Board of Education will  
meet with the aggrieved person and a representative of the Association if the teacher wishes. 
Level Three:
If the Association is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Level Two, or if no  
decision has been rendered within seven (7) days after the grievant first met with Board, the  
Association may submit the grievance to arbitration before an arbitrator mutually selected by the  
parties.  In the event the parties are unable to agree upon the selection of an arbitrator, selection  
5

=== PDF PAGE 8 ===
5
shall be conducted through the American Arbitration Association.  The arbitrator shall hear the  
matter promptly and issue a decision within thirty days after the close of the hearing.  The decision 
of the arbitrator will be final and binding on both parties.  The arbitrator shall have no power or  
authority to make any decision which is in violation of law or which is in violation of this  
Agreement.  The parties will share equally in the arbitrator's fee.
No reprisals of any kind will be taken by the board or by any member of the Administration against 
any party in interest, any member of the Association, or any other participant in the grievance  
procedure by reason of such participation.  The documents, communications and records dealing  
with the processing of grievances will be filed separately from the personnel files of the employees.
ARTICLE VI
TEACHING EMPLOYMENT AND CONDITIONS
A. WORKING: CONDITIONS
All working conditions described below are applicable to the entire faculty except where  
indicated.
B. TEACHING HOURS
1. The school day for bargaining unit members shall consist of seven (7) hours.  
Sign-in time for members of the bargaining unit shall be 7:45 a.m. (note time arrived) and sign-out 
time shall be 2:45 p.m. up until 3:30 p.m. (note time departing).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, all 
bargaining unit members shall be required to be available to students for extra help for forty-five  
(45) minutes once a week outside of regular school hours.  Teachers shall receive no additional  
compensation for this weekly forty-five (45) minute extra help session.  The time of day during  
which teachers shall provide such extra help shall be mutually agreed upon by the teacher and the 
Superintendent.  The day of the week such help shall be provided will be at the discretion of the  
teacher.
2. All members of the bargaining unit shall be dismissed at 2:45 p.m.  The time  
period from 2:00 p.m. to 2:45 p.m., for the elementary school teachers (Pre-K through grade 6) will 
be a professional period during which time the following activities may occur:
(a) Common planning;
(b)  Curriculum development;
(c)  Evaluation of student work;
(d)  Consultation with staff;
(e)  Staff meetings at the department or grade level;
6

=== PDF PAGE 9 ===
6
(f)  Instructional support team meetings;
(g)  Committee on Special Education meetings;
(h)  Mentoring (teacher/student);
(i)  Parent Conferences;
(j)  To serve on special committees; 
(k)  Staff development/professional growth activities;
(1)  Faculty meetings;
(m)  Extra  help  (provided  for  a  teacher's  assigned  students  who  require 
additional support,  or  as otherwise  mutually  agreed  upon  between  the 
Association and the principal);
(n) Other activities as mutually agreed upon between the  District and the  
Association;
(o) Indirect consultant teacher services in accordance with a student’s IEP.
In connection with the professional period activities as described above, the following  
conditions apply:
(a) No  evaluation  or  formal  observation  shall  occur  except  to  the  extent 
necessary to insure that a specific professional activity is occurring;
(b)  No formal lesson plans are required for these periods; 
(c)  This period  will not be  used to  provide  individualized education  plan 
services for special education students;
(d)  No duty assignment shall be made for teachers, but teaching assistants  
may be assigned duties; and
(e) Two (2) days per week the District shall select the activities from the  
above list, and three (3) days per week the individual teacher shall select the 
activities from the above list.
3.  All teachers shall have a forty (40) minute lunch period daily.
4. Teachers will be expected to attend three (3) evening meetings involving parents  
per year, inclusive of (i) one Back to School Night, (ii) one Parent-Teacher Conference in the Fall 
7

=== PDF PAGE 10 ===
7
Semester; and (iii) one Parent-Teacher Conference in the Spring Semester.  The Parent-Teacher  
Conferences shall not exceed 2-hours per night. 
5. Faculty meetings may be scheduled two times per month, first and third Mondays  
of the school calendar adjusted for holidays or vacation conflicts with such meetings (i) starting  
within (10) minutes of the end of school, and (ii) being up to forty (40) minutes in length.  The  
Superintendent may schedule additional meetings with notice given at least one week in advance. 
It is understood that a member of the bargaining unit will not be asked to attend more than one  
additional meeting per semester and that the additional meeting will not extend the school day by  
more  than  thirty  minutes.   Emergency  meetings  may  be  called  at  the  discretion  of  the 
Superintendent after he/she consults with the BTA President.
6. Use of the Flexible Schedule shall further the Mission of the Bridgehampton  
Union Free School District.  Flexible schedules for BTA members must total the same number of 
contractual work hours as defined for other BTA members in the negotiated Agreement.  In all  
instances, flexible schedules for BTA members will be voluntary and put in place only with the  
written consent of the BTA member.  The purpose of the flexible schedule and the duration of the 
assignment will be defined in a written agreement between the BTA member and the School  
District and signed by the BTA member, the Superintendent, and the BTA President.
C. SCHOOL YEAR
1. The  school calendar shall consist of 184 days. Teachers shall be  required to  
provide instruction to pupils for 180 days (with the District determining if any of those days shall 
be used in whole or in part for staff conference days), and one additional Superintendent's  
Conference day.  The three additional days included in the school calendar have been scheduled for 
use as inclement weather days.  If any of these days are not used for that purpose they shall be used 
as additional holiday days to be scheduled at the District's discretion.  The District shall consult  
with the BTA when determining the school calendar. On the last three (3) days of the school year, 
students in grades kindergarten through grade eight who are not otherwise taking a Regents  
examination shall be dismissed for a half day.  The remainder of the workday for affected teachers 
will be utilized for year-end work and/or professional duties as assigned by the Building Principal, 
unless State law instructional time requirements prohibit such. 
2. The District may require BTA members to work up to three additional days of  
teaching beyond the 180 days.  Any days so designated may be used for instruction or for  
involvement  for  all  or  part  of  the  staff  in  professional  meetings,  in-service,  or  curriculum 
development.  BTA members so involved will be compensated on a per diem basis (1/180th of the 
teacher's salary).  The three days shall fall within the months of September through June, or other 
professional assignments designated by the Superintendent and mutually agreed upon by the BTA 
President.
8

=== PDF PAGE 11 ===
8
3. Voluntary participation in in-service training for in-service credit may be accepted 
and completed any time during the year.  One in-service credit shall be granted for every 15 hours 
of approved in-service training.
4. A half-day session for all students will be scheduled at the end of each of the first  
and third marking periods.  The elementary and secondary teachers shall spend the remainder of  
those days on professional assignments, holding parent conferences, student evaluation meetings, 
curriculum  development  conferences,  or  other  professional  assignments  designated  by  the 
Superintendent and mutually agreed upon by the BTA President.
D. TEACHER LOAD
1. Assigned period - The term "assigned period" as used in this contract shall mean:  
to be confined in any given area with one or more pupils.  The term includes, but is not limited to 
teaching periods, laboratories, study halls, lunch duty.
2. Secondary and Middle School bargaining unit members and special area teachers  
assigned to work at both the elementary and secondary level shall have the following workday:
a. Six (6) teaching periods (one of which shall be a tutorial).
b. One (1) duty period to be assigned at the discretion of the Superintendent.
c. One (1) unassigned preparation period.
d. One (1) duty-free lunch period.
e. One (1) four-minute homeroom.
f. One period which will be a professional period, during which time the  
District will assign the following activities to occur:
(a) Common planning;
(b) Curriculum development;
(c) Evaluation of student work;
(d) Consultation with staff;
(e) Staff meetings at the department or grade level;
(f)  Instructional support team meetings;
(g) Committee on Special Education meetings;
9

=== PDF PAGE 12 ===
9
(h) Mentoring (teacher/student);
(i)  Parent Conferences;
(j) To serve on special committees;
(k) Staff development/professional growth activities;
(l) Faculty meetings;
(m) Other activities as mutually agreed upon between the District and  
the Association;
(o) Indirect consultant teacher services in accordance with a student’s  
IEP.
In connection with the professional period activities as described above,  
the following conditions apply:
(a) No  evaluation  or  formal  observation  shall  occur  except  to  the 
extent necessary to insure that a specific professional activity is  
occurring;
(b) No formal lesson plans are required for these periods;
(c) This period will not be used to provide individualized education  
plan services for special education students; and
All periods (other than homeroom and lunch) shall be thirty-eight (38) minutes in length.  
Homeroom shall be four (4) minutes in length and the lunch period shall be forty (40) minutes in  
length.  The term “tutorial” as used in this contract shall mean: a study skills/non-instructional  
period supervising students.  "Duty period" as referenced herein shall refer to hall duty, bus duty,  
lunch duty and, if necessary, study hall.  Study hall, if utilized, shall not be considered an  
instructional period.  Science labs will be counted as a teaching period for purposes of this  
provision.
3. An after school instructional period may be added to the school day of selected  
students for the purpose of remedial instruction and/or enrichment.  This time is above and beyond 
the 45 minute per week of extra help as described above to be included in Article VI Section B,  
Paragraph 1.  Volunteer teachers will conduct the extension of the school day. Teachers who have 
been selected to teach this instructional period will be compensated on an hourly basis of the  
teacher's annual salary.  The program will be evaluated on a yearly basis.  It is the responsibility of 
the Superintendent to develop the yearly evaluation form.  Variations will be subject to teacher  
approval and a negotiated agreement agreed to by the BTA President and signed by the BTA  
President, the individual teacher(s), and the Superintendent. 
10

=== PDF PAGE 13 ===
10
4. Elementary teachers shall have a daily preparation period of no less than thirty-
five (35) minutes, exclusive of lunch.  In the event the District is unable to arrange coverage for the 
elementary teacher in order to provide the preparation period, the member who, as a result, does not 
receive the preparation period will be compensated at 1/6th of 1/200th of his/her daily rate of pay.
5. Mandatory meetings and/or conferences scheduled by the Superintendent during a 
teacher's unassigned period shall not exceed two (2) per marking period.  The intent herein is for  
the Superintendent to be reasonable and that he/she shall not be arbitrary or capricious in utilization 
of conference needs.
6. An opportunity will be provided for teachers, guidance counselors, and the guidance  
director to review assignments and class lists.  Such opportunity shall be provided by June 1st with 
regard to assignments for the following school year, if practicable.  In the event the District is  
unable to provide that opportunity by June 1st, administration will advise the affected teacher and  
provide an explanation.  Suggestions by the teacher, guidance counselor and/or guidance director  
will be considered prior to the time the Superintendent makes the final decision on assignments. 
7. EXTRA CLASS PERIODS:
a. An “extra class period” shall be defined as a teaching period in  
excess of the number of teaching periods for which the District may assign a teacher in  
accordance with this Paragraph.
b. Assignment of a BTA member to an extra class period shall be on a 
voluntary basis, and no BTA member shall be compelled to teach an extra class period.
c. BTA members assigned to teach an extra class period shall be  
relieved of a tutorial teaching period, preparation period, or a professional development  
period on those days when the extra class period occurs; subject to the consent of the  
Building Principal. Those teachers who are not relieved of a duty period shall be assigned 
either a hallway duty or testing duty.
d. In  the  event  the  District  decided  to  offer  BTA  members  the 
opportunity to teach an extra class period, the District shall solicit BTA members by  
posting the position to the entire BTA staff. Only BTA members who are properly certified 
to teach the course subject at issue will be considered eligible for the assignment. In the  
event multiple BTA members apply for a position, the selection and appointment will be  
made at the sole discretion of the Superintendent of Schools.
11

=== PDF PAGE 14 ===
11
e.  Extra class period assignment shall be made, as needed, each school 
year. A BTA member’s assignment to an extra class period shall not cause such BTA  
member to be entitled to the same or a similar position in subsequent school years.
f. To the extent practicable, the District will endeavor to provide at  
least two (2) weeks’ advance notice of an extra class period assignment.
g. It is understood and agreed that the offer of extra class period  
assignments shall not be made for the purpose of reducing the existing staff.
h. BTA members assigned to teach an extra class period shall receive a 
stipend as follows:
 Courses that are scheduled to meet A and B days for the duration 
of the school year: $15,000; 
 Courses that are scheduled to meet A or B days for the duration 
of the school year: $7,500; 
 Courses that are scheduled to meet A and B days for half of the  
school year: $7,500; 
 Courses that are scheduled to meet A or B days for half of the  
school year: $3,750; 
 Courses that are scheduled to meet three days per week for the  
duration of the school year: $9,000; 
 Courses that are scheduled to meet three days per week for half  
of the school year: $4,500; 
 Courses that are scheduled to meet two days per week for the  
duration of the school year: $6,000; 
 Courses that are scheduled to meet two days per week for half of 
the school year: $3,000. 
i. A proration of said stipend will apply in the event the extra class  
assignment begins after the start of the first semester (September) or second semester  
(January/February). The proration shall be based on forty (40) weeks for a full year course 
and twenty (20) weeks for a half year course as described herein. Any portion of a week  
assigned the extra class shall be compensated as a full week.
8. Teaching  assistants  shall  have  a  daily  preparation  period,  as  scheduled  by 
administration.
9. Full-time nurses shall be entitled to an uninterrupted lunch period of 40 minutes.
E. EXTRA-CURRICULAR DUTY ASSIGNMENTS
12

=== PDF PAGE 15 ===
12
Extra-curricular  duty  assignments  shall  be  recommended  by  the  Superintendent  in  a 
manner he/she deems appropriate to meet district needs.
F. EXTRA-CURRICULAR EMPLOYMENT
Notification of job opportunities in the following areas shall be posted online and/or sent  
via email to all unit members:
1. Adult Education
2. Tutoring
3. Professional In-Service Courses
4. Summer Programs
5. Athletic Programs
6. Student Clubs and Programs
7. Extra-Curricular Activities
Teacher unit members shall be given priority consideration for extra-curricular, coaching  
and advisor positions over non-unit member applicants.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, after  
consultation with the BTA, the District may elect to assign a non-unit member to a coaching  
position. Such priority shall not apply, however, to teacher unit members who have not performed 
in a satisfactory manner in the past.
G.  TEACHEROBSERVATIONS/EVALUATIONS
1. Teacher observations/evaluations may be "Pre-arranged" or unannounced by the  
Superintendent or certified administrator appointed by the Board of Education.  For a planned,  
formal observation, the teacher shall be notified three (3) days in advance of  the pre-observation 
conference and observation. Pre- and Post-observation conferences will be held prior to the written 
report of this pre-arranged observation.  A post-observation conference will be held prior to the  
development of a written report in the case of an unannounced observation.
2. No material of a negative nature relating to a teacher's conduct, service, character,  
or personality shall be placed in his/her personnel file unless the teacher has had the opportunity to 
review the material.  The teacher shall acknowledge that he/she had the opportunity to review the 
materials by affixing his/her signature to the copy to be filed, with the expressed understanding that 
such signature in no way indicates agreement with the contents.  The teacher shall also have the  
right to submit a written answer to such material and have it attached to the file copy. 
3. Each teacher shall be given the right to have valid professional reports or notices  
of special achievements placed in his/her personnel file.
4. Teachers have the right to review and to duplicate the contents of their personnel  
files.
H. TEACHER NOTIFICATION OF SALARY
13

=== PDF PAGE 16 ===
13
Notice of salary shall be received by each teacher by June 1 st or within one week after  
ratification of this agreement if after June 1st.
I. PROBATIONARY TEACHER NOTIFICATION OF EMPLOYMENT
All untenured teachers shall be notified as to the status of their employment for the  
following school year by June 1st. 
J. TEACHER RE-ASSIGNMENT
In the reassignment of a teacher who has been in the District for one or more years, the  
option  of  grade  level  and/or  subject  matter  shall  be  discussed  by  the  teacher  and  the 
Superintendent.  In that discussion, prior to any reassignment, the teacher involved shall be  
apprised of the reason for assignment.  Official written notice of reassignment will be given as soon 
as practicable thereafter with June 1st as a target date. 
K. TEACHER AREAS
The Board and the Association agree to keep the Teachers' room and dining area sanitary  
and clean. The Board shall provide facilities for the duplication of teachers' materials for classroom 
use.
L. SUBSTITUTE TEACHER NOTIFICATION OF EMPLOYMENT
Every effort shall be made to notify all long-term substitute teachers as to the status of  
their employment for the following school year by May 15th.
M. SALARY PAYMENT
Members of the bargaining unit will be paid every two weeks.  Initial starting date and  
salary options shall be offered by the District in twenty-one (21) or twenty-six (26) payments and 
chosen by the teacher at the start of the school year.  Every effort will be made to have payment  
selections completed by the last day of the school year.
N. DIRECT DEPOSIT
Direct deposit will be made available to all BTA members at no cost providing there is no 
cost passed on to the District by the banking industry.
O. MENTORING PROGRAM
Newly hired teachers shall be required to participate in the District’s mentoring program  
for one full school year.
ARTICLE VII
14

=== PDF PAGE 17 ===
14
SALARIES FOR THE 2025-26 THROUGH 2029-30 SCHOOL YEARS
A. Salaries for the 2025-26 through 2029-30 school years shall be paid according to the  
included salary schedule and associated indexing schedule. Additional pay for coaching and other 
duties related to the athletic program will be made according to the included Interscholastic Sports 
Pay Schedule (Article VII,F).
The salary schedule shall be increased by the following percentages:
2025-2026 3%
In addition, one new step will be added at the 
end of the salary schedule, with the new step 
being 1.5% above the immediately preceding 
step.
2026-2027 3%
2027-2028 2.5%
2028-2029 2.5%
2029-2030 2.5%
1. A  teacher  who  qualified  for  a  salary  in  two  different  columns  of  the  salary 
schedule (for example: a teacher has Bachelor's plus sixty (60) credits and also a Master's) will be 
paid the larger of the two salaries for which he/she qualified.
2. In order to earn salary increment credit for new courses taken, the teacher must  
apply to the Superintendent for approval prior to taking the course.  The request is to be made in  
duplicate on the appropriate form (Appendix A) and the Superintendent will return one copy to the 
teacher indicating approval or disapproval.  Approval will be granted for courses directly related to 
classroom content or skills related to specific subject areas of the teacher, as determined by the  
Superintendent.  The Superintendent's discretion with regard to the approval or disapproval of  
courses for increment purposes shall not be exercised in an arbitrary or capricious manner.  For  
courses which are approved, the teacher shall submit an official transcript to the Business Office  
after completion of the course.
For a teacher to be paid for Bachelor's plus a number of credits, the credits should  
be earned graduate courses and/or In-Service courses.  For a teacher to be paid for Master's plus a 
number of credits, the credits should be earned in graduate courses after receiving the Masters  
Degree and/or In-Service Courses.  However, the teacher may receive "Master's plus" credit for a 
15

=== PDF PAGE 18 ===
15
course taken before or during the earning of the Master's Degree as long as the course is a graduate 
or in-service level course and all of the following conditions are met.
a. The course is not a pre-requisite for the Master's Degree.
b. The course does not satisfy any of the requirements for the Master's 
Degree.
c. The course is approved for increment purposes by the Superintendent.
3. All  credits  earned  for  salary  increment  purposes  are  to  be  approved  by  the 
Superintendent.  Three (3) out of ten (10) credits required for each column advancement shall be  
earned  from  graduate  credits  from  (i)  an  accredited  college/university  and  accepted  for 
matriculation; however, there  is no requirement for the unit member to be enrolled in any  
college/university, or (ii) by other programs that are approved by the Superintendent in their sole  
discretion. A request for approval is made by copying and completing the form for tuition  
reimbursement (Appendix A).  Refer to Article VIII A.  Teachers who submit proof of course  
completion in accordance with this Article by November 1 st for courses completed on or before  
September 1 st shall be entitled to column advancement retroactive to September 1 st.  Proof  
submitted after November 1st shall have column advancement applied the following September 1st.
B. Teaching Assistants will be paid 60% of Step 1 of BA column and $2,000 for college  
tuition, fees, and related expenses; the $2,000 may be given in a lump sum or in two payments,  
September and January.  Henceforth, the sum of $100 will be awarded for successful completion of 
each graduate or undergraduate credit leading toward teacher certification.  There will be a 50%  
tuition, fee, and related expenses reimbursement.  Salary increases will be paid as of date verified.
C. SCHOOL NURSE
The school nurse will continue on the BA column with longevity move.  The nurse may  
henceforth accumulate graduate and or in-service credits for the purpose of advancement on the  
salary schedule, this includes 50% tuition reimbursement.
D. TEACHER LONGEVITY
Salaries of persons who have completed twenty (20), twenty-one (21), or twenty-two (22) 
or more years of service adjusted with the yearly salary schedule will be more than the regularly  
scheduled salaries by the following amounts.
STEP ADDITION TO THE REGULAR SALARY
21-24 $800.00
25-29 $1,500.00
30 or more $1,800.00
16

=== PDF PAGE 19 ===
16
Years  of  CREDITED  Prior  Service  is  equal  to  the  number  of  years  completed  at 
Bridgehampton School.
E. EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Stipends shall be paid in accordance with the attached Appendix C.
1. Class  Advisors.  The  job  description  will  be  posted  by  the  Office  of  the 
Superintendent’s Office. Class Advisors will be “paid volunteers.” Preference will be given to  
previous Advisors who have worked with any specific class. Primary responsibilities are fund  
raising, chaperoning “class trip” and tasks related to graduation.
2. Expenses for the Senior Trip will be made available for Advisors.  The Advisors'  
expenses (hotel, travel, meals, and other costs and fees associated with the trip) will be paid by the 
Board of Education.  This amount shall be the same as the hotel, travel, meals, and other costs and 
fees associated with the trip, costs of students participating.  Spouses may pay their own way.  The 
Board will pay expenses hotel, travel, meals, and other costs and fees associated with the trip for  
two chaperones for the Senior Trip.  While these two chaperones are typically the Class Advisors, 
unforeseen circumstances may result in the need to engage an "alternate" chaperone for the Senior 
Trip.  In such a case, the Advisor accompanying the Seniors may select an acceptable alternate who 
will then receive a sum equal to transportation and hotel costs.
17

=== PDF PAGE 20 ===
17
3. Homeroom Teachers 6-12 will be appointed by the Superintendent or designee.
4. The  Senior  Class  Advisors  will  be  equally  responsible  for  the  planning, 
organizing, and coordinating of all Senior Class fund raisers; determining with the Seniors the  
destination of the Senior Class trip; accompanying the Seniors in a chaperone capacity on the trip; 
and, facilitating all financial arrangements related to the trip.
5.  Two  meetings  per  year  will  be  scheduled  by  the  Superintendent  (end  of 
September and the end of January) to review plans and responsibilities of Junior and Senior  
Advisors.  In the event that the two Advisors will not be sharing equally in total responsibilities for 
Junior and Senior Class Advisorship, an equitable re-distribution of funds will be determined based 
upon documented proof of effort. In the event that one or both of the Advisors are unwilling/unable 
to  participate  in  Junior  and/or  Senior  Advisor  responsibilities,  the  Superintendent  will seek 
volunteers for these advisorships in terms of fund raising and Senior Trip responsibilities.
6. For the academic years 2025-26 through 2029-30, the Junior and Senior Class  
Advisor will enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Bridgehampton Union Free  
School District specifying intent to conduct fundraisers and to chaperone the Senior Trip.
7. This Memorandum of Understanding will include a written breakdown of those  
responsibilities for which each Advisor is responsible.  It will be the responsibility of the Advisors 
to develop this "Agenda of Responsibilities".
8. The Superintendent must approve the destination of the trip as well as the number  
and kinds of fund raising activities listed in the Memorandum of Understanding.
9. The Senior Class Advisors will file with the Superintendent on or before October  
15th a schedule of fund raising for the academic year.
10 . Further, the Senior Class Advisors will be responsible for the following tasks  
related to graduation: practicing for graduation, determining the Class Theme, determining the  
program related to senior speakers, and the collecting of caps and gowns.
11. The Alternative High School shall run after school until 5:00 p.m. for such full  
weeks as the District’s regular school program is in session, and such other weekdays as designated 
by District Administration.
Teachers appointed to work in the Alternative High School shall be paid for thirty  
(30) minutes of preparation time for every 2.25 hours of service, which also shall be paid in  
accordance with the home tutoring rate. Unassigned preparation time shall be scheduled by the  
Superintendent of Schools.
F. Interscholastic Sports Pay Schedule:
Boys'  and Girls’ Interscholastic Coaching:
18

=== PDF PAGE 21 ===
18
Percent of Base (BA Step 1)
Number of 
years 
1 2 3 4 6 8 10+
Basketball Varsity 11 12 13 14.5 15.5 16.6 18
JV 8 9 10 11.5 12.5 13.5 15
7&8 5 6 7 8.5 9.5 10.5 12
Baseball Varsity 10 11 12 13.5 14.5 15.5 17
JV 8 9 10 11.5 12.5 13.5 15
7&8 5 6 7 8.5 9.5 10.5 12
Volleyball Varsity 7 8 9 10.5 11.5 12.5 14
JV 5 6 7 8.5 9.5 10.5 12
7&8 3 4 5 6.5 7.5 8.5 10
Soccer Varsity 9 10 11 12.5 13.5 14.5 16
JV 5 6 7 8.5 9.5 10.5 12
7&8 3 4 5 6.5 7.5 8.5 10
Golf Varsity 7 8 9 10.5 11.5 12.5 14
JV 5 6 7 8.5 9.5 10.5 12
7&8 3 4 5 6.5 7.5 8.5 10
Tennis Varsity 7 8 9 10.5 11.5 12.5 14
JV 5 6 7 8.5 9.5 10.5 12
7&8 3 4 5 6.5 7.5 8.5 10
Cheerleading Varsity 4 5 6 7.5 8.5 9.5 11
JV
7&8
Softball Varsity 10 11 12 13.5 14.5 15.5 17
JV 8 9 10 11.5 12.5 13.5 15
7&8 5 6 7 8.5 9.5 10.5 12
Cross 
Country Varsity 6 7 8 9.5 10.5 11.5 13
JV
7&8
Post Season Increments for Coaches 
19

=== PDF PAGE 22 ===
19
For post-season play, play beyond the regular season, coaches will receive a percentage of their  
salary based on the number of weeks of the regular season.
ARTICLE VIII
TEACHER BENEFITS
A. Tuition Refund Program
The tuition and fees incurred by a teacher, teaching assistant or nurse for each college or  
in-service course taken may be reimbursed in the amount of 50% of such costs.  Effective July 1, 
2026, the tuition and fees incurred by a teacher, teaching assistant or nurse for each college or in-
service course taken may be reimbursed in the amount of 30% of such costs.  
The teacher shall submit application forms seeking approval for such courses to the  
Superintendent at the earliest possible date, and prior to enrolling in the course.  The application  
must be submitted in duplicate.  One of these copies will be returned to the teacher with approval or 
disapproval  indicated  (See  Appendix  A).   Refer  to  Article  VII.A.3.   The  Superintendent's 
discretion in approving or disapproving courses shall not be exercised in an arbitrary or capricious 
manner. Approval will be granted for courses directly related to classroom content or skills related 
to specific subject areas of the teacher, as determined by the Superintendent.
The tuition refund program does not apply to persons on Sabbatical Leave.
Payment will be made to teachers within thirty (30) days upon successful completion of  
the Course of study and submission of required forms.
The Superintendent reserves the right to deny any request based on the educational needs of 
the district.  Requests must be submitted prior to budget preparation for the following school year.
For tuition reimbursement, a teacher must complete the approved course with a grade of  
"B” or better.  Teachers shall submit an official transcript to the Business Office after completion of 
the course.
B. Personal Leave
Each teacher is entitled to two (2) days of “personal” leave. One additional personal day may 
be granted at the discretion of the Superintendent for the purpose of allowing an employee to  
address personal business which cannot be handled outside of the workday.  Unused personal days 
may be transferred to accumulated sick leave.
1 . Teachers who know in advance that personal leave days will be taken are required  
to file notice as soon as possible with the Superintendent stating the date(s) of such 
leave.
20

=== PDF PAGE 23 ===
20
2. Teachers who must take personal leave because of unexpected personal business  
will arrange for a substitute teacher in the usual manner. Immediately upon return to 
school, the teachers shall file notice to inform the Superintendent that personal  
leave was taken.
C. Professional Leave
A teacher may request leave to attend conventions or other similar professional activities.  
To apply, the teacher must complete the appropriate form stating the nature of the professional  
activity and the date of the anticipated leave.  Requests to be reimbursed for all or part of the  
expenses incurred for attending such activities may be included in the annual budget request  
prepared by the teacher.
D. Child Rearing Leave
Teachers shall have the right to unpaid leave of up to two years for the purpose of child  
rearing, including for adopted children.  Teachers shall be permitted to utilize some or all of their 
sick leave to convert a portion of their unpaid leave of absence into a paid leave of absence. Return 
from such leave of absence shall be at the start of the school year or semester if such leave is  
beyond that which the employee would be entitled to under the Family Medical Leave Act.  At least 
sixty days notice shall be given before the leave commences.  The Board will maintain teacher  
health and dental benefits for a period of one year.  During the second year of the child rearing  
leave, the teacher may elect to pay the health and dental premiums in order to continue coverage.
E. Sick Leave
Sick leave is fifteen (15) days per year.  Unused sick leave accumulates to a total of 220  
days.  Sick leave is granted for personal illness.  A limit of 30 days per year out of a teacher's,  
teaching  assistants,  or  nurse's  accumulated  sick  leave  will  be  available  for  sickness  in  the 
immediate family.  For purposes of this Section, “immediate family” shall be spouse, children,  
parents, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister, brother, grandparents or domestic partner (provided  
the domestic partner qualifies as such pursuant to the NYSHIP Plan Rules).
F. Bereavement Leave
Five (5) consecutive school days will be granted in the event of death in one’s immediate  
family.  For purposes of this Section, “immediate family” shall be spouse, children, parents,  
mother-in-law,  father-in-law,  sister,  brother,  sister-in-law,  brother-in-law, grandparents  or  
domestic partner, the parent of a domestic partner, or the children of a domestic partner (provided 
the domestic partner qualifies as such pursuant to the NYSHIP Plan Rules.)
G. Prolonged/Incapacitating Sick Leave
The Board may grant prolonged and incapacitating sick leave for a period of thirty (30)  
days or more to an individual teacher, that is, additional sick days may be granted or an individual 
voluntary teacher sick bank may be allowed. If the Board allows individual voluntary teacher sick 
21

=== PDF PAGE 24 ===
21
bank for the individual experiencing a prolonged and incapacitating illness, contributions from  
teachers must come from days of entitlement within the 220-day limit set in the sick leave policy. 
Prolonged/Incapacitating  sick  leave  as  set forth  herein  shall  apply  only  to  a  teacher’s own 
prolonged and incapacitating illness. 
H. Sabbatical Leaves
Teachers, teaching assistants, or nurse who have served in the system for seven (7) years  
are eligible for sabbatical leave during the academic year or during the summer. 
Complete details of the program are given below:
THE  PRIMARY  PURPOSE  OF  THE  SABBATICAL  PROGRAM  IS  THE  
IMPROVEMENT  OF  THE  PROFESSIONAL  QUALIFICATIONS  OF  THE  TEACHING 
PERSONNEL OF THE BRIDGEHAMPTON SCHOOL AND THEREBY FURTHERING THE  
MISSION OF THE BRIDGEHAMPTON SCHOOL.
1 . Accordingly the Board will grant leaves for:
A. Formal graduate study: a minimum of twenty (20) credits required for a  
full year leave, ten for a semester leave, and six for a leave during the  
summer.  The content of the course should be in (a) the teacher's field of  
work at Bridgehampton, or (b) a closely related and supporting field.
B. Independent research and/or travel undertaken in consultation with the  
Superintendent.
C. Writing of a doctoral thesis
2. A. There should be a maximum of:
a. one full year leave in any complete school year or,
b. two one-semester leaves in any school year, or
c. four one-summer leaves in any one year.
B. The Board, however, reserves the right to refuse to grant a leave in any  
year.  A summer leave will be considered one-sixth of a full year's leave.
C. A teacher may apply for:
a. A full year's pay at the scheduled rate then in effect.
b. A semester leave, for which the teacher will receive a half year's  
pay scheduled rate then in effect.
22

=== PDF PAGE 25 ===
22
c. One summer's leave, for which the teacher will receive one-sixth  
of a year's pay at the scheduled rate then in effect.
d. Two consecutive summer leaves, for which the teacher will receive
one-sixth of a year's pay at the scheduled rate then in effect for  
EACH summer.
D. If  the  Superintendent  is  unable  to  find  a  substitute  for  any  teacher, 
teaching assistant, or nurse already granted a sabbatical leave:
a. the Superintendent will inform the teacher that the leave may not  
be granted as scheduled, and
b. the teacher will automatically be granted the equivalent leave in  
summer leave, with rates to apply as in 2C.
3. Applicants must:
A. Have served for seven (7) years in the Bridgehampton School System.
B. Submit an application letter to the Superintendent stating:
a. the specific duration of leave requested, and
b. how  the  individual's  program  conforms  to  the  requirements  of 
section 1 paragraphs a, b and c.
C. Submit the application letter by:
a. January 15th of the year in which a full year's leave or a single fall  
semester leave is being requested.
b. September 15 th of the year preceding the year in which a single  
semester leave is being requested.
c. April 15th of the year in which a summer leave is being requested.
4. The Board will inform all applicants in writing of a decision within one month of  
the deadline date for application.
5. Any teacher granted a leave will be eligible to apply again for another leave  
according to the following schedule:
If leave is granted for one summer, the teacher may re-apply after three years.
If leave is granted for two consecutive summers, the teacher may re-apply after five  
years.
If leave is granted for one-semester, the teacher may re-apply after five years.
If leave is granted for one full year, the teacher may re-apply after seven years.
23

=== PDF PAGE 26 ===
23
6. At the appropriate time, the applicant will sign an agreement to resume his duties upon  
return from SABBATICAL LEAVE for a period of at least one year.
7. Teachers returning from leaves will be given one year of service credit for time on leave  
and the salary schedule then in effect shall automatically apply.
8. All leaves shall be granted solely at the discretion of the Board.
9. A  report  on  sabbatical  experience  will  be  required  upon  completion  of  the  term  of 
sabbatical; if summer sabbatical, at the conclusion of each summer period for which granted.   Said 
report is to be given to the Board of Education.
I.  Jury Duty
If a teacher is called to jury duty, he or she shall be given a leave of absence with pay  
equal in length to the number of days his/her attendance upon jury duty is required.  This absence 
shall not be deducted from sick leave or personal leave.  Monetary compensation paid to the  
teacher for performing jury duty must be turned over to the school district upon its receipt exclusive 
of mileage allowance.  All employees must notify his/her immediate supervisor as soon as possible 
after receipt of notice of jury service, and a copy of such notice shall be provided to the Business  
Office as soon as possible and prior to the date for such service.  In addition, proof of jury service 
must be submitted to the Business Office upon completion of jury service.  Failure to submit  
notification and proof of jury service may result in a loss of pay for days served.
J. Military Duty
Every employee shall be paid his/her regular salary for any and all periods of absence  
while engaged in the performance of ordered military duty and while going to and returning from 
such duty not exceeding thirty days in any one calendar year or thirty days in any one continuous  
period of absence.
K. Termination of Employment Pay
(Members may choose from Option A or Option B)
Option A:
Teachers  who  have  completed  a  minimum  of  twenty  (20)  years  of  service  at 
Bridgehampton  School  will  be  paid  for  a  portion  of  the  unused  sick  leave  that  they  have 
accumulated at the time of retirement or being excessed because of consolidation or some other  
form of reorganization and provided a new district does not grant the accumulated sick leave. The 
teachers will be paid their regular daily rate (that is, their annual contract salary divided by 180) for 
each day to be given is shown in the following table.
24

=== PDF PAGE 27 ===
24
Number of Years Completed
At Bridgehampton Schools Pay for the Number of Days
Twenty (20) 35% of the number of unused
Accumulated sick days.
Twenty-five (25) 40% of the number of unused
Accumulated sick days.
Thirty (30) 45% of the number of the unused
Accumulated sick days.
Option B:
Members  who  have  completed  a  minimum  of  twenty  (20)  years  of  service  at 
Bridgehampton School and who have accumulated 220 unused sick days at the time of retirement 
or being excessed because of consolidation or some other reorganization and provided a new  
district does not grant the accumulated sick leave may return 220 unused sick leave days to the  
district and leave the district one semester early with ½ annual salary paid on the last day of the  
semester.  A letter of intent to exercise this option will be sent to the district one semester before  
termination of employment; 90 unused sick leave days, one quarter early with 1/4 of the annual  
salary.
L. Health Insurance
Each teacher and his/her family is eligible for Group Health Insurance coverage. Benefits  
are provided under the CORE Empire Plan with enhancements.  Domestic partner health insurance 
benefits shall be available to BTA members who are eligible for health insurance in accordance  
with this Agreement and criteria established by NYSHIP. 
Blue Cross provides basic benefits.  In addition, the teacher, teaching assistant or nurse  
elects either the benefits under the Group Health Insurance (GHI) program or the CORE Empire  
Plan with enhancements.  For the 2025-2026 school year, teachers and nurses shall pay nineteen  
(19%) percent and teaching assistants shall pay sixteen (16%) percent of the individual or family  
premium as applicable. For the 2026-2027 school year, teachers and nurses shall pay nineteen and 
one quarter (19.25%) percent and teaching assistants shall pay sixteen and one quarter (16.25%)  
percent of the individual or family premium as applicable. For the 2027-2028 school year, teachers 
and nurses shall pay nineteen and one half (19.5%) percent and teaching assistants shall pay sixteen 
and one half (16.5%) percent of the individual or family premium as applicable. For the 2028-2029 
school year, teachers and nurses shall pay nineteen and three quarter (19.75%) percent and teaching 
assistants shall pay sixteen and three quarter (16.75%) percent of the individual or family premium 
as applicable. For the 2029-2030 school year, teachers and nurses shall pay twenty (20%) percent 
25

=== PDF PAGE 28 ===
25
and teaching assistants shall pay seventeen (17%) percent of the individual or family premium as  
applicable. 
Teachers shall be permitted to participate in the District's IRS 125 Plan.
If  both  parties  agree,  a  different  health  insurance  program  could  be  selected.   The 
Association agrees that it will not unreasonably withhold its agreement to such a change provided 
that the benefits provided by the newly procured plan shall be equal to or better than benefits  
provided by the current carrier at the time of conversion.
Health benefits are available for Long Term Substitutes after thirty days of employment.  
The Board will assume 50% of the appropriate level of health benefits.  Long Term Substitutes will 
be given the option of contributing 50% after 30 full school days of employment.  If a Long Term 
Substitute does not elect to contribute the remaining 50%, no health benefits will be provided.
Teachers who are eligible to receive any health insurance coverage from the District  may 
opt not to be covered by the District.  Teachers hired on or before June 30, 2026 who elect not to be 
covered for health insurance by the District for 12 months shall be entitled to receive 50% of the  
family premium paid by the District if the employee previously had family coverage or 50% of the 
individual premium paid by the District if the employee previously had individual coverage  
provided the teacher remains uncovered by the District for twelve (12) consecutive months.  
Teachers hired on or after July 1, 2026 who elect not to be covered for health insurance by the  
District for 12 months shall be entitled to receive 25% of the family premium paid by the District if 
the employee previously had family coverage or 25% of the premium paid by the District if the  
employee previously had individual coverage provided the teacher remains uncovered by the  
District for twelve (12) consecutive months.  Effective July 1, 2029, teachers hired on or before  
June 30, 2026, who elect not to be covered for health insurance by the District for 12 months shall 
be entitled to receive 40% of the family premium paid by the District if the employee previously  
had family coverage or 40% of the premium paid by the District if the employee previously had  
individual coverage provided the teacher remains uncovered by the District for twelve (12)  
consecutive months.  
New teachers may elect either to decline family or individual coverage as applicable.  The 
employee shall give notice of declination of health benefits no later than 30 days prior to the  
planned benefit termination date. Teachers making this election shall submit sworn statements to  
the District indicating that they have health insurance coverage under another plan.  For the first  
year of this contract, teachers who decline health benefits shall receive a "pro-rata” amount of the 
50% premium.
Nothing contained herein shall preclude a member of the bargaining unit from applying  
to re-enter the District's health insurance plan waive any applicable waiting period but shall not be 
otherwise obligated to take any further action or pay any additional amounts.  If a teacher must re-
enter the District's health plan prior to the end of the 12 month period that the teacher opted out of, 
he/she shall forfeit any stipend for opting out of the plan.
M. Dental Insurance
26

=== PDF PAGE 29 ===
26
During the life of the contract, the district will contribute $25,000 per year to a dental  
insurance plan to be selected by the BTA membership. Effective July 1, 2026 and for the remainder 
of the life of the contract, the District will contribute $40,000 per year to a dental insurance plan to 
be selected by the BTA membership. The BTA membership has selected a dental plan with Delta 
Dental to be implemented as soon as practicable.  Such dental insurance plan may be offered to  
members of the bargaining unit and their spouses, dependents and domestic partners upon such  
terms and conditions as determined by the dental insurance plan and the BTA membership.
N. Retired Teacher Health Benefits
Payment of health and dental insurance benefits for retirees prior to July 1, 2003 will  
continue to be provided in accordance with past practice.  Unit members retiring on or after July 1, 
2004 shall be required to contribute toward health insurance in accordance with the percentage of 
contribution applicable to such member at the time of retirement.
O. Pre-Paid Legal
The district shall provide bargaining unit members with NYSUT’S Group Pre-Paid Legal  
Services Plan (the "Plan") at the cost of $45.00 per member per year as described in the Plan  
Summary annexed hereto.
P. Part-time teachers will be eligible for sick time and personal time on a "pro-rata" basis.  
Part-time teachers may enroll in the District’s health, dental, and prepaid legal plans, provided that 
they contribute toward the premiums for these plans on a "pro-rata" basis. 
Part-time teachers are not entitled to any other benefits under the CBA. 
The District shall contribute 50% toward individual and 35% toward family insurance in  
accordance with the minimum contributions as applicable to the empire plan for employees  
working .5 full time equivalent status, and the District's contribution toward individual and family 
health insurance for part-time employees working more than .5 full time equivalent status shall be 
increased beyond those percentages in proportion to the extent the employee exceeds .5 full-time  
equivalent status, up to the maximum of the District’s contribution for full-time employees.
Q. Optical Insurance
The District shall contribute $8,000 per school year, toward optical insurance.  Effective 
July 1, 2026 and for the remainder of the life of the contract, the District will contribute $9,000 per 
year to an optical insurance plan to be selected by the BTA membership. Such optical insurance 
plan may be offered to members of the bargaining unit and their spouses, dependents and domestic 
partners upon such terms and conditions as determined by the optical insurance plan and the BTA 
membership.
R. Retirement Incentive
27

=== PDF PAGE 30 ===
27
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, a retirement incentive shall be available to all  
teachers who submit to the Superintendent of Schools no later than March 1 of their first year of  
eligibility to retire (defined as when he/she first becomes eligible for the NYSTRS service  
retirement provisions under his/her respective tier without penalty due to insufficient years of  
service or age) an irrevocable letter of resignation for purposes of retirement, effective the  
following June 30.  The incentive shall be: (i) a one-time payment of $20,000, and (ii) in lieu of any 
payment pursuant to subsection K of this Article, payment at the rate of their regular daily rate (that 
is, their annual contract salary divided by 180) for each day given at the rate of 50% of the number 
of the unused accumulated sick days. 
For the 2025-2026 school year, this benefit shall be available to any teacher regardless of  
whether it is their first year of eligibility to retire for any unit members who submit to the  
Superintendent of Schools no later than June 10, 2026 an irrevocable letter of resignation for  
purposes of retirement, effective June 30, 2026.
For the 2026-2027 school year, this benefit shall be available to any teacher regardless of  
whether it is their first year of eligibility to retire for any unit members who submit to the  
Superintendent of Schools no later than March 1, 2027 an irrevocable letter of resignation for  
purposes of retirement, effective June 30, 2027.
ARTICLE IX
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
This agreement shall constitute the full and complete commitments between both parties  
and may be altered, changed, added to, deleted from, or modified only through the voluntary  
mutual consent of both parties in a written and signed amendment to this agreement.  Before the  
Board adopts a change in policy which affects any other condition of employment not covered by 
the terms of this agreement and which has not been proposed by the Association, the Board will  
notify the Association in writing that it is considering a change.
Nothing  contained  herein shall  be  contrary  to law.  In  the  event any portion of this 
Agreement is invalidated by operation of law, the law shall control, but only that particular  
provision of this Agreement shall be accommodated and the balance of this Agreement shall  
survive.  Upon  written  request  of  either  party,  negotiations  will  be  commenced  as  soon  as 
practicable regarding a substitute for such invalid provision.
ARTICLE X
DURATION
This contract will run from July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2030.  However, no provision  
of this contract except "Payment for Accumulated Sick Leave . . . " as amended, shall apply to  
members of the Association who at any time during the contract period are no longer employed by 
the Bridgehampton School District as a result of consolidation or district reorganization.  This in no 
way shall diminish or eliminate any rights or privileges that teachers have under the Education  
Law.
28

=== PDF PAGE 31 ===
28
ARTICLE XI
IT IS AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES THAT ANY PROVISIONS OF  
THIS  AGREEMENT  REQUIRING  LEGISLATIVE  ACTION  TO  PERMIT  ITS  
IMPLEMENTATION BY PROVIDING THE ADDITIONAL FUNDS THEREFORE SHALL  
NOT  BECOME  EFFECTIVE  UNTIL  THE  APPROPRIATE  LEGISLATIVE  BODY  HAS 
GIVEN APPROVAL.
29

=== PDF PAGE 32 ===
29
SIGNATORY PAGE
The  Board  of  Education  of  the  Bridgehampton  School  District  #9  and  the  Bridgehampton 
Teachers' Association mutually accept the terms, conditions, and schedules contained in the  
ELEVEN (11) articles of this agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their hands and seals this ___ day  
of  ___________, 2026.
Dated: _______________ BRIDGEHAMPTON UNION FREE 
SCHOOL DISTRICT
   By: _______________________________
Dr. Brigid P. Collins
Superintendent of Schools
Dated: _______________ BRIDGEHAMPTON TEACHERS’
ASSOCIATION
   By: _______________________________
Joseph Pluta
            Co-President
   By: _______________________________
Caitlin Hansen
Co-President
30

=== PDF PAGE 33 ===
30
Appendix A
APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF COURSES
FOR
Salary Increment & Tuition Refund
Date of Application: ________________________________________________
Name of Teacher ________________________________________________
College Offering Course: ________________________________________________
Semester Offered: ________________________________________________
Course Date: Department : ________________________________________________
Number of Course(s): ________________________________________________
Name of Course(s): ________________________________________________
Tuition and Fees: ________________________________________________
Approved for salary increment ________________________________________________
Approved for tuition refund ________________________________________________
Not Approved ________________________________________________
(to be returned to the teacher)
After completion of an approved course, the teacher must present evidence of passing the course* 
and must present a receipt showing the amount of tuition paid. Registration fees and lab fees are  
considered part of the tuition for refund purposes. Reimbursement will be 50% of the total tuition 
and fees. Effective July 1, 2026, reimbursement will be 30% of the total tuition and fees.
For tuition refund purposes, the grade should be B or better. 
31

=== PDF PAGE 34 ===
BRIDGEHAMPTON UFSD
Earning Schedule Report For 07/01/2025 - 06/30/2026
Salary Schedule ID:
Salary Schedule Name:
183
BTA 25-26 step 23 3%
Step TA BA BA10 BA20 BA30 BA40 BA50 M BA60 M10
Schedule Type:
Bargaining Unit: NYSUT
Contractual
1.00 32,236.00 53,721.00 56,679.00 59,633.00 62,588.00 65,543.00 68,497.00 68,497.00 71,452.00 71,452.00
2.00 56,410.00 59,363.00 62,319.00 65,273.00 68,228.00 71,182.00 71,182.00 74,139.00 74,139.00
3.00 59,094.00 62,050.00 65,005.00 67,958.00 70,916.00 73,867.00 73,867.00 76,825.00 76,825.00
4.00 62,050.00 65,005.00 67,958.00 70,916.00 73,867.00 76,825.00 76,825.00 79,781.00 79,781.00
5.00 65,005.00 67,958.00 70,916.00 73,867.00 76,825.00 79,781.00 79,781.00 82,734.00 82,734.00
6.00 68,228.00 71,182.00 74,139.00 77,092.00 80,045.00 83,004.00 83,004.00 85,957.00 85,957.00
7.00 71,452.00 74,406.00 77,362.00 80,314.00 83,271.00 86,227.00 86,227.00 89,182.00 89,182.00
8.00 74,678.00 77,630.00 80,585.00 83,539.00 86,495.00 89,450.00 89,450.00 92,403.00 92,403.00
9.00 77,899.00 80,855.00 83,810.00 86,765.00 89,717.00 92,673.00 92,673.00 95,628.00 95,628.00
10.00 81,124.00 84,078.00 87,032.00 89,986.00 92,943.00 95,898.00 95,898.00 98,852.00 98,852.00
11.00 84,347.00 87,299.00 90,258.00 93,210.00 96,163.00 99,120.00 99,120.00 102,074.00 102,074.00
12.00 87,570.00 90,526.00 93,480.00 96,434.00 99,387.00 102,344.00 102,344.00 105,297.00 105,297.00
13.00 90,793.00 93,748.00 96,702.00 99,657.00 102,612.00 105,567.00 105,567.00 108,521.00 108,521.00
14.00 94,017.00 96,972.00 99,926.00 102,878.00 105,835.00 108,790.00 108,790.00 111,745.00 111,745.00
15.00 97,239.00 100,195.00 103,149.00 106,104.00 109,058.00 112,015.00 112,015.00 114,969.00 114,969.00
16.00 100,463.00 103,418.00 106,372.00 109,327.00 112,282.00 115,237.00 115,237.00 118,194.00 118,194.00
17.00 103,687.00 106,640.00 109,597.00 112,550.00 115,503.00 118,460.00 118,460.00 121,416.00 121,416.00
18.00 106,908.00 109,864.00 112,818.00 115,773.00 118,728.00 121,684.00 121,684.00 124,636.00 124,636.00
19.00 110,133.00 113,089.00 116,041.00 118,996.00 121,952.00 124,907.00 124,907.00 127,862.00 127,862.00
20.00 113,358.00 116,311.00 119,266.00 122,220.00 125,175.00 128,130.00 128,130.00 131,084.00 131,084.00
21.00 116,582.00 119,535.00 122,488.00 125,445.00 128,398.00 131,355.00 131,355.00 134,311.00 134,311.00
22.00 119,804.00 122,758.00 125,712.00 128,667.00 131,624.00 134,579.00 134,579.00 137,533.00 137,533.00
23.00 121,601.00 124,599.00 127,598.00 130,597.00 133,598.00 136,598.00 136,598.00 139,596.00 139,596.00
06/05/2026 04:14 PM 1/2 Page
32

=== PDF PAGE 35 ===
BRIDGEHAMPTON UFSD
Earning Schedule Report For 07/01/2025 - 06/30/2026
Salary Schedule ID:
Salary Schedule Name:
183
BTA 25-26 step 23 3%
Step M20 M30 M40 M50
Schedule Type:
Bargaining Unit: NYSUT
Contractual
1.00 74,406.00 77,362.00 80,314.00 83,271.00
2.00 77,092.00 80,045.00 83,004.00 85,957.00
3.00 79,781.00 82,734.00 85,690.00 88,644.00
4.00 82,734.00 85,690.00 88,644.00 91,601.00
5.00 85,690.00 88,644.00 91,601.00 94,553.00
6.00 88,914.00 91,868.00 94,821.00 97,775.00
7.00 92,137.00 95,090.00 98,045.00 101,001.00
8.00 95,362.00 98,314.00 101,268.00 104,223.00
9.00 98,584.00 101,536.00 104,492.00 107,447.00
10.00 101,806.00 104,760.00 107,715.00 110,670.00
11.00 105,031.00 107,985.00 110,939.00 113,893.00
12.00 108,252.00 111,207.00 114,161.00 117,117.00
13.00 111,476.00 114,431.00 117,384.00 120,341.00
14.00 114,701.00 117,655.00 120,608.00 123,563.00
15.00 117,923.00 120,878.00 123,832.00 126,788.00
16.00 121,147.00 124,101.00 127,055.00 130,009.00
17.00 124,370.00 127,324.00 130,281.00 133,236.00
18.00 127,590.00 130,547.00 133,501.00 136,457.00
19.00 130,816.00 133,772.00 136,724.00 139,680.00
20.00 134,040.00 136,996.00 139,950.00 142,904.00
21.00 137,263.00 140,218.00 143,173.00 146,128.00
22.00 140,487.00 143,442.00 146,397.00 149,350.00
23.00 142,594.00 145,594.00 148,593.00 151,590.00
06/05/2026 04:14 PM 2/2 Page
33

=== PDF PAGE 36 ===
BRIDGEHAMPTON UFSD
Earning Schedule Report For 07/01/2026 - 06/30/2027
Salary Schedule ID:
Salary Schedule Name:
213
BTA 26-27 step 23 3%
Step TA BA BA10 BA20 BA30 BA40 BA50 M BA60 M10
Schedule Type:
Bargaining Unit: NYSUT
Contractual
1.00 33,203.00 55,333.00 58,379.00 61,422.00 64,466.00 67,509.00 70,552.00 70,552.00 73,596.00 73,596.00
2.00 58,102.00 61,144.00 64,189.00 67,231.00 70,275.00 73,317.00 73,317.00 76,363.00 76,363.00
3.00 60,867.00 63,912.00 66,955.00 69,997.00 73,043.00 76,083.00 76,083.00 79,130.00 79,130.00
4.00 63,912.00 66,955.00 69,997.00 73,043.00 76,083.00 79,130.00 79,130.00 82,174.00 82,174.00
5.00 66,955.00 69,997.00 73,043.00 76,083.00 79,130.00 82,174.00 82,174.00 85,216.00 85,216.00
6.00 70,275.00 73,317.00 76,363.00 79,405.00 82,446.00 85,494.00 85,494.00 88,536.00 88,536.00
7.00 73,596.00 76,638.00 79,683.00 82,723.00 85,769.00 88,814.00 88,814.00 91,857.00 91,857.00
8.00 76,918.00 79,959.00 83,003.00 86,045.00 89,090.00 92,134.00 92,134.00 95,175.00 95,175.00
9.00 80,236.00 83,281.00 86,324.00 89,368.00 92,409.00 95,453.00 95,453.00 98,497.00 98,497.00
10.00 83,558.00 86,600.00 89,643.00 92,686.00 95,731.00 98,775.00 98,775.00 101,818.00 101,818.00
11.00 86,877.00 89,918.00 92,966.00 96,006.00 99,048.00 102,094.00 102,094.00 105,136.00 105,136.00
12.00 90,197.00 93,242.00 96,284.00 99,327.00 102,369.00 105,414.00 105,414.00 108,456.00 108,456.00
13.00 93,517.00 96,560.00 99,603.00 102,647.00 105,690.00 108,734.00 108,734.00 111,777.00 111,777.00
14.00 96,838.00 99,881.00 102,924.00 105,964.00 109,010.00 112,054.00 112,054.00 115,097.00 115,097.00
15.00 100,156.00 103,201.00 106,243.00 109,287.00 112,330.00 115,375.00 115,375.00 118,418.00 118,418.00
16.00 103,477.00 106,521.00 109,563.00 112,607.00 115,650.00 118,694.00 118,694.00 121,740.00 121,740.00
17.00 106,798.00 109,839.00 112,885.00 115,927.00 118,968.00 122,014.00 122,014.00 125,058.00 125,058.00
18.00 110,115.00 113,160.00 116,203.00 119,246.00 122,290.00 125,335.00 125,335.00 128,375.00 128,375.00
19.00 113,437.00 116,482.00 119,522.00 122,566.00 125,611.00 128,654.00 128,654.00 131,698.00 131,698.00
20.00 116,759.00 119,800.00 122,844.00 125,887.00 128,930.00 131,974.00 131,974.00 135,017.00 135,017.00
21.00 120,079.00 123,121.00 126,163.00 129,208.00 132,250.00 135,296.00 135,296.00 138,340.00 138,340.00
22.00 123,398.00 126,441.00 129,483.00 132,527.00 135,573.00 138,616.00 138,616.00 141,659.00 141,659.00
23.00 125,249.00 128,337.00 131,426.00 134,515.00 137,606.00 140,696.00 140,696.00 143,784.00 143,784.00
06/05/2026 04:09 PM 1/2 Page
34

=== PDF PAGE 37 ===
BRIDGEHAMPTON UFSD
Earning Schedule Report For 07/01/2026 - 06/30/2027
Salary Schedule ID:
Salary Schedule Name:
213
BTA 26-27 step 23 3%
Step M20 M30 M40 M50
Schedule Type:
Bargaining Unit: NYSUT
Contractual
1.00 76,638.00 79,683.00 82,723.00 85,769.00
2.00 79,405.00 82,446.00 85,494.00 88,536.00
3.00 82,174.00 85,216.00 88,261.00 91,303.00
4.00 85,216.00 88,261.00 91,303.00 94,349.00
5.00 88,261.00 91,303.00 94,349.00 97,390.00
6.00 91,581.00 94,624.00 97,666.00 100,708.00
7.00 94,901.00 97,943.00 100,986.00 104,031.00
8.00 98,223.00 101,263.00 104,306.00 107,350.00
9.00 101,542.00 104,582.00 107,627.00 110,670.00
10.00 104,860.00 107,903.00 110,946.00 113,990.00
11.00 108,182.00 111,225.00 114,267.00 117,310.00
12.00 111,500.00 114,543.00 117,586.00 120,631.00
13.00 114,820.00 117,864.00 120,906.00 123,951.00
14.00 118,142.00 121,185.00 124,226.00 127,270.00
15.00 121,461.00 124,504.00 127,547.00 130,592.00
16.00 124,781.00 127,824.00 130,867.00 133,909.00
17.00 128,101.00 131,144.00 134,189.00 137,233.00
18.00 131,418.00 134,463.00 137,506.00 140,551.00
19.00 134,740.00 137,785.00 140,826.00 143,870.00
20.00 138,061.00 141,106.00 144,149.00 147,191.00
21.00 141,381.00 144,425.00 147,468.00 150,512.00
22.00 144,702.00 147,745.00 150,789.00 153,831.00
23.00 146,872.00 149,962.00 153,051.00 156,138.00
06/05/2026 04:09 PM 2/2 Page
35

=== PDF PAGE 38 ===
BRIDGEHAMPTON UFSD
Earning Schedule Report For 07/01/2027 - 06/30/2028
Salary Schedule ID:
Salary Schedule Name:
214
BTA 27-28 step 23  2.5%
Step TA BA BA10 BA20 BA30 BA40 BA50 M BA60 M10
Schedule Type:
Bargaining Unit: NYSUT
Contractual
1.00 34,033.00 56,716.00 59,838.00 62,958.00 66,078.00 69,197.00 72,316.00 72,316.00 75,436.00 75,436.00
2.00 59,555.00 62,673.00 65,794.00 68,912.00 72,032.00 75,150.00 75,150.00 78,272.00 78,272.00
3.00 62,389.00 65,510.00 68,629.00 71,747.00 74,869.00 77,985.00 77,985.00 81,108.00 81,108.00
4.00 65,510.00 68,629.00 71,747.00 74,869.00 77,985.00 81,108.00 81,108.00 84,228.00 84,228.00
5.00 68,629.00 71,747.00 74,869.00 77,985.00 81,108.00 84,228.00 84,228.00 87,346.00 87,346.00
6.00 72,032.00 75,150.00 78,272.00 81,390.00 84,507.00 87,631.00 87,631.00 90,749.00 90,749.00
7.00 75,436.00 78,554.00 81,675.00 84,791.00 87,913.00 91,034.00 91,034.00 94,153.00 94,153.00
8.00 78,841.00 81,958.00 85,078.00 88,196.00 91,317.00 94,437.00 94,437.00 97,554.00 97,554.00
9.00 82,242.00 85,363.00 88,482.00 91,602.00 94,719.00 97,839.00 97,839.00 100,959.00 100,959.00
10.00 85,647.00 88,765.00 91,884.00 95,003.00 98,124.00 101,244.00 101,244.00 104,363.00 104,363.00
11.00 89,049.00 92,166.00 95,290.00 98,406.00 101,524.00 104,646.00 104,646.00 107,764.00 107,764.00
12.00 92,452.00 95,573.00 98,691.00 101,810.00 104,928.00 108,049.00 108,049.00 111,167.00 111,167.00
13.00 95,855.00 98,974.00 102,093.00 105,213.00 108,332.00 111,452.00 111,452.00 114,571.00 114,571.00
14.00 99,259.00 102,378.00 105,497.00 108,613.00 111,735.00 114,855.00 114,855.00 117,974.00 117,974.00
15.00 102,660.00 105,781.00 108,899.00 112,019.00 115,138.00 118,259.00 118,259.00 121,378.00 121,378.00
16.00 106,064.00 109,184.00 112,302.00 115,422.00 118,541.00 121,661.00 121,661.00 124,784.00 124,784.00
17.00 109,468.00 112,585.00 115,707.00 118,825.00 121,942.00 125,064.00 125,064.00 128,184.00 128,184.00
18.00 112,868.00 115,989.00 119,108.00 122,227.00 125,347.00 128,468.00 128,468.00 131,584.00 131,584.00
19.00 116,273.00 119,394.00 122,510.00 125,630.00 128,751.00 131,870.00 131,870.00 134,990.00 134,990.00
20.00 119,678.00 122,795.00 125,915.00 129,034.00 132,153.00 135,273.00 135,273.00 138,392.00 138,392.00
21.00 123,081.00 126,199.00 129,317.00 132,438.00 135,556.00 138,678.00 138,678.00 141,799.00 141,799.00
22.00 126,483.00 129,602.00 132,720.00 135,840.00 138,962.00 142,081.00 142,081.00 145,200.00 145,200.00
23.00 128,380.00 131,545.00 134,712.00 137,878.00 141,046.00 144,213.00 144,213.00 147,379.00 147,379.00
06/05/2026 04:09 PM 1/2 Page
36

=== PDF PAGE 39 ===
BRIDGEHAMPTON UFSD
Earning Schedule Report For 07/01/2027 - 06/30/2028
Salary Schedule ID:
Salary Schedule Name:
214
BTA 27-28 step 23  2.5%
Step M20 M30 M40 M50
Schedule Type:
Bargaining Unit: NYSUT
Contractual
1.00 78,554.00 81,675.00 84,791.00 87,913.00
2.00 81,390.00 84,507.00 87,631.00 90,749.00
3.00 84,228.00 87,346.00 90,468.00 93,586.00
4.00 87,346.00 90,468.00 93,586.00 96,708.00
5.00 90,468.00 93,586.00 96,708.00 99,825.00
6.00 93,871.00 96,990.00 100,108.00 103,226.00
7.00 97,274.00 100,392.00 103,511.00 106,632.00
8.00 100,679.00 103,795.00 106,914.00 110,034.00
9.00 104,081.00 107,197.00 110,318.00 113,437.00
10.00 107,482.00 110,601.00 113,720.00 116,840.00
11.00 110,887.00 114,006.00 117,124.00 120,243.00
12.00 114,288.00 117,407.00 120,526.00 123,647.00
13.00 117,691.00 120,811.00 123,929.00 127,050.00
14.00 121,096.00 124,215.00 127,332.00 130,452.00
15.00 124,498.00 127,617.00 130,736.00 133,857.00
16.00 127,901.00 131,020.00 134,139.00 137,257.00
17.00 131,304.00 134,423.00 137,544.00 140,664.00
18.00 134,703.00 137,825.00 140,944.00 144,065.00
19.00 138,109.00 141,230.00 144,347.00 147,467.00
20.00 141,513.00 144,634.00 147,753.00 150,871.00
21.00 144,916.00 148,036.00 151,155.00 154,275.00
22.00 148,320.00 151,439.00 154,559.00 157,677.00
23.00 150,544.00 153,711.00 156,877.00 160,041.00
06/05/2026 04:09 PM 2/2 Page
37

=== PDF PAGE 40 ===
BRIDGEHAMPTON UFSD
Earning Schedule Report For 07/01/2028 - 06/30/2029
Salary Schedule ID:
Salary Schedule Name:
215
BTA 28-29 step 23  2.5%
Step TA BA BA10 BA20 BA30 BA40 BA50 M BA60 M10
Schedule Type:
Bargaining Unit: NYSUT
Contractual
1.00 34,884.00 58,134.00 61,334.00 64,532.00 67,730.00 70,927.00 74,124.00 74,124.00 77,322.00 77,322.00
2.00 61,044.00 64,240.00 67,439.00 70,635.00 73,833.00 77,029.00 77,029.00 80,229.00 80,229.00
3.00 63,949.00 67,148.00 70,345.00 73,541.00 76,741.00 79,935.00 79,935.00 83,136.00 83,136.00
4.00 67,148.00 70,345.00 73,541.00 76,741.00 79,935.00 83,136.00 83,136.00 86,334.00 86,334.00
5.00 70,345.00 73,541.00 76,741.00 79,935.00 83,136.00 86,334.00 86,334.00 89,530.00 89,530.00
6.00 73,833.00 77,029.00 80,229.00 83,425.00 86,620.00 89,822.00 89,822.00 93,018.00 93,018.00
7.00 77,322.00 80,518.00 83,717.00 86,911.00 90,111.00 93,310.00 93,310.00 96,507.00 96,507.00
8.00 80,812.00 84,007.00 87,205.00 90,401.00 93,600.00 96,798.00 96,798.00 99,993.00 99,993.00
9.00 84,298.00 87,497.00 90,694.00 93,892.00 97,087.00 100,285.00 100,285.00 103,483.00 103,483.00
10.00 87,788.00 90,984.00 94,181.00 97,378.00 100,577.00 103,775.00 103,775.00 106,972.00 106,972.00
11.00 91,275.00 94,470.00 97,672.00 100,866.00 104,062.00 107,262.00 107,262.00 110,458.00 110,458.00
12.00 94,763.00 97,962.00 101,158.00 104,355.00 107,551.00 110,750.00 110,750.00 113,946.00 113,946.00
13.00 98,251.00 101,448.00 104,645.00 107,843.00 111,040.00 114,238.00 114,238.00 117,435.00 117,435.00
14.00 101,740.00 104,937.00 108,134.00 111,328.00 114,528.00 117,726.00 117,726.00 120,923.00 120,923.00
15.00 105,227.00 108,426.00 111,621.00 114,819.00 118,016.00 121,215.00 121,215.00 124,412.00 124,412.00
16.00 108,716.00 111,914.00 115,110.00 118,308.00 121,505.00 124,703.00 124,703.00 127,904.00 127,904.00
17.00 112,205.00 115,400.00 118,600.00 121,796.00 124,991.00 128,191.00 128,191.00 131,389.00 131,389.00
18.00 115,690.00 118,889.00 122,086.00 125,283.00 128,481.00 131,680.00 131,680.00 134,874.00 134,874.00
19.00 119,180.00 122,379.00 125,573.00 128,771.00 131,970.00 135,167.00 135,167.00 138,365.00 138,365.00
20.00 122,670.00 125,865.00 129,063.00 132,260.00 135,457.00 138,655.00 138,655.00 141,852.00 141,852.00
21.00 126,158.00 129,354.00 132,550.00 135,749.00 138,945.00 142,145.00 142,145.00 145,344.00 145,344.00
22.00 129,645.00 132,842.00 136,038.00 139,236.00 142,436.00 145,633.00 145,633.00 148,830.00 148,830.00
23.00 131,590.00 134,834.00 138,080.00 141,325.00 144,572.00 147,818.00 147,818.00 151,063.00 151,063.00
06/05/2026 04:10 PM 1/2 Page
38

=== PDF PAGE 41 ===
BRIDGEHAMPTON UFSD
Earning Schedule Report For 07/01/2028 - 06/30/2029
Salary Schedule ID:
Salary Schedule Name:
215
BTA 28-29 step 23  2.5%
Step M20 M30 M40 M50
Schedule Type:
Bargaining Unit: NYSUT
Contractual
1.00 80,518.00 83,717.00 86,911.00 90,111.00
2.00 83,425.00 86,620.00 89,822.00 93,018.00
3.00 86,334.00 89,530.00 92,730.00 95,926.00
4.00 89,530.00 92,730.00 95,926.00 99,126.00
5.00 92,730.00 95,926.00 99,126.00 102,321.00
6.00 96,218.00 99,415.00 102,611.00 105,807.00
7.00 99,706.00 102,902.00 106,099.00 109,298.00
8.00 103,196.00 106,390.00 109,587.00 112,785.00
9.00 106,683.00 109,877.00 113,076.00 116,273.00
10.00 110,169.00 113,366.00 116,563.00 119,761.00
11.00 113,659.00 116,856.00 120,052.00 123,249.00
12.00 117,145.00 120,342.00 123,539.00 126,738.00
13.00 120,633.00 123,831.00 127,027.00 130,226.00
14.00 124,123.00 127,320.00 130,515.00 133,713.00
15.00 127,610.00 130,807.00 134,004.00 137,203.00
16.00 131,099.00 134,296.00 137,492.00 140,688.00
17.00 134,587.00 137,784.00 140,983.00 144,181.00
18.00 138,071.00 141,271.00 144,468.00 147,667.00
19.00 141,562.00 144,761.00 147,956.00 151,154.00
20.00 145,051.00 148,250.00 151,447.00 154,643.00
21.00 148,539.00 151,737.00 154,934.00 158,132.00
22.00 152,028.00 155,225.00 158,423.00 161,619.00
23.00 154,308.00 157,554.00 160,799.00 164,042.00
06/05/2026 04:10 PM 2/2 Page
39

=== PDF PAGE 42 ===
BRIDGEHAMPTON UFSD
Earning Schedule Report For 07/01/2029 - 06/30/2030
Salary Schedule ID:
Salary Schedule Name:
216
BTA 29-30 step 23  2.5%
Step TA BA BA10 BA20 BA30 BA40 BA50 M BA60 M10
Schedule Type:
Bargaining Unit: NYSUT
Contractual
1.00 35,756.00 59,587.00 62,867.00 66,145.00 69,423.00 72,700.00 75,977.00 75,977.00 79,255.00 79,255.00
2.00 62,570.00 65,846.00 69,125.00 72,401.00 75,679.00 78,955.00 78,955.00 82,235.00 82,235.00
3.00 65,548.00 68,827.00 72,104.00 75,380.00 78,660.00 81,933.00 81,933.00 85,214.00 85,214.00
4.00 68,827.00 72,104.00 75,380.00 78,660.00 81,933.00 85,214.00 85,214.00 88,492.00 88,492.00
5.00 72,104.00 75,380.00 78,660.00 81,933.00 85,214.00 88,492.00 88,492.00 91,768.00 91,768.00
6.00 75,679.00 78,955.00 82,235.00 85,511.00 88,786.00 92,068.00 92,068.00 95,343.00 95,343.00
7.00 79,255.00 82,531.00 85,810.00 89,084.00 92,364.00 95,643.00 95,643.00 98,920.00 98,920.00
8.00 82,832.00 86,107.00 89,385.00 92,661.00 95,940.00 99,218.00 99,218.00 102,493.00 102,493.00
9.00 86,405.00 89,684.00 92,961.00 96,239.00 99,514.00 102,792.00 102,792.00 106,070.00 106,070.00
10.00 89,983.00 93,259.00 96,536.00 99,812.00 103,091.00 106,369.00 106,369.00 109,646.00 109,646.00
11.00 93,557.00 96,832.00 100,114.00 103,388.00 106,664.00 109,944.00 109,944.00 113,219.00 113,219.00
12.00 97,132.00 100,411.00 103,687.00 106,964.00 110,240.00 113,519.00 113,519.00 116,795.00 116,795.00
13.00 100,707.00 103,984.00 107,261.00 110,539.00 113,816.00 117,094.00 117,094.00 120,371.00 120,371.00
14.00 104,284.00 107,560.00 110,837.00 114,111.00 117,391.00 120,669.00 120,669.00 123,946.00 123,946.00
15.00 107,858.00 111,137.00 114,412.00 117,689.00 120,966.00 124,245.00 124,245.00 127,522.00 127,522.00
16.00 111,434.00 114,712.00 117,988.00 121,266.00 124,543.00 127,821.00 127,821.00 131,102.00 131,102.00
17.00 115,010.00 118,285.00 121,565.00 124,841.00 128,116.00 131,396.00 131,396.00 134,674.00 134,674.00
18.00 118,582.00 121,861.00 125,138.00 128,415.00 131,693.00 134,972.00 134,972.00 138,246.00 138,246.00
19.00 122,160.00 125,438.00 128,712.00 131,990.00 135,269.00 138,546.00 138,546.00 141,824.00 141,824.00
20.00 125,737.00 129,012.00 132,290.00 135,567.00 138,843.00 142,121.00 142,121.00 145,398.00 145,398.00
21.00 129,312.00 132,588.00 135,864.00 139,143.00 142,419.00 145,699.00 145,699.00 148,978.00 148,978.00
22.00 132,886.00 136,163.00 139,439.00 142,717.00 145,997.00 149,274.00 149,274.00 152,551.00 152,551.00
23.00 134,880.00 138,205.00 141,532.00 144,858.00 148,186.00 151,513.00 151,513.00 154,840.00 154,840.00
06/05/2026 04:11 PM 1/2 Page
40

=== PDF PAGE 43 ===
BRIDGEHAMPTON UFSD
Earning Schedule Report For 07/01/2029 - 06/30/2030
Salary Schedule ID:
Salary Schedule Name:
216
BTA 29-30 step 23  2.5%
Step M20 M30 M40 M50
Schedule Type:
Bargaining Unit: NYSUT
Contractual
1.00 82,531.00 85,810.00 89,084.00 92,364.00
2.00 85,511.00 88,786.00 92,068.00 95,343.00
3.00 88,492.00 91,768.00 95,048.00 98,324.00
4.00 91,768.00 95,048.00 98,324.00 101,604.00
5.00 95,048.00 98,324.00 101,604.00 104,879.00
6.00 98,623.00 101,900.00 105,176.00 108,452.00
7.00 102,199.00 105,475.00 108,751.00 112,030.00
8.00 105,776.00 109,050.00 112,327.00 115,605.00
9.00 109,350.00 112,624.00 115,903.00 119,180.00
10.00 112,923.00 116,200.00 119,477.00 122,755.00
11.00 116,500.00 119,777.00 123,053.00 126,330.00
12.00 120,074.00 123,351.00 126,627.00 129,906.00
13.00 123,649.00 126,927.00 130,203.00 133,482.00
14.00 127,226.00 130,503.00 133,778.00 137,056.00
15.00 130,800.00 134,077.00 137,354.00 140,633.00
16.00 134,376.00 137,653.00 140,929.00 144,205.00
17.00 137,952.00 141,229.00 144,508.00 147,786.00
18.00 141,523.00 144,803.00 148,080.00 151,359.00
19.00 145,101.00 148,380.00 151,655.00 154,933.00
20.00 148,677.00 151,956.00 155,233.00 158,509.00
21.00 152,252.00 155,530.00 158,807.00 162,085.00
22.00 155,829.00 159,106.00 162,384.00 165,659.00
23.00 158,166.00 161,493.00 164,819.00 168,143.00
06/05/2026 04:11 PM 2/2 Page
41

=== PDF PAGE 44 ===
Appendix C
 Stipends for the 2025-2026 through 2029-2030 School Years
Title
Pay Frequency
2025-2026
2026-2027
2027-2028
2028-2029
2029-2030
Athletics
30-second score clock operator
per event
$86.99
$89.60
$91.84
$94.14
$96.49
EMT Home Game
per event
$59.74
$61.53
$63.07
$64.65
$66.26
Score Clock Operator
per event
$86.99
$89.60
$91.84
$94.14
$96.49
Supervisor of Athletic Event
per event
$86.99
$89.60
$91.84
$94.14
$96.49
Intramural Supervisor
per sport interval (10 weeks)
$476.34
$490.63
$502.90
$515.47
$528.36
Athletic Director
annual
$10,609.00
$10,927.27
$11,200.45
$11,480.46
$11,767.47
Director of Guidance
annual
$10,300.00
$10,609.00
$10,874.23
$11,146.08
$11,424.73
BEE Club (Saturday Athletics) Coordinator
annual
$2,121.80
$2,185.45
$2,240.09
$2,296.09
$2,353.49
Pupil Personnel Services
Elementary BASS/Special Education Behavior and Academic Coordinator (10 month)
per year
$3,182.70
$3,278.18
$3,360.14
$3,444.14
$3,530.24
Secondary BASS/Special Education Behavior and Academic Coordinator (10 month)
per year
$3,182.70
$3,278.18
$3,360.14
$3,444.14
$3,530.24
Elementary (Grades K-5) IST Coordinator
per year
$3,090.00
$3,182.70
$3,262.27
$3,343.82
$3,427.42
Secondary (Grades 6-12) IST Coordinator
per year
$3,090.00
$3,182.70
$3,262.27
$3,343.82
$3,427.42
Committee on Special Education if assignments beyond the contractual day
per hour
$71.08
$73.21
$75.04
$76.92
$78.84
Special Education Homework Club Advisor (2)
per year (max 100 hours)
$64.71
$66.66
$68.32
$70.03
$71.78
Elementary and Secondary ESL Homework Club (2)
per year (max 100 hours)
$64.71
$66.66
$68.32
$70.03
$71.78
Teacher for Special Class Summer School
Hourly rate of teacher's yearly salary
Clubs and Advisories (weekly after school meetings, at least 8 months of the school year, unless otherwise indicated)
Elementary Student Government (after school weekly)
per year (shared)
$2,832.50
$2,917.48
$2,990.41
$3,065.17
$3,141.80
Compassion in Action (secondary student government)
per year (shared)
$2,832.50
$2,917.48
$2,990.41
$3,065.17
$3,141.80
Environmental Club
per year (shared)
$2,832.50
$2,917.48
$2,990.41
$3,065.17
$3,141.80
Outdoor Activity Club
per year (shared)
$2,832.50
$2,917.48
$2,990.41
$3,065.17
$3,141.80
Robotics
per year (shared)
$5,665.00
$5,834.95
$5,980.82
$6,130.34
$6,283.60
Foreign Language Club
per year
$1,060.90
$1,092.73
$1,120.05
$1,148.05
$1,176.75
8th Grade Class Advisor
per year
$1,241.25
$1,278.49
$1,310.45
$1,343.21
$1,376.79
Homework Club Advisor (4 days per week October through June)
per hour
$64.71
$66.66
$68.32
$70.03
$71.78
Drama Club
per year (shared)
$3,182.70
$3,278.18
$3,360.14
$3,444.14
$3,530.24
PBIS Coordination
per year
$1,060.90
$1,092.73
$1,120.05
$1,148.05
$1,176.75
Girls on the Run Advisor
per year (shared)
$1,060.90
$1,092.73
$1,120.05
$1,148.05
$1,176.75
42

=== PDF PAGE 45 ===
Title
Pay Frequency
2025-2026
2026-2027
2027-2028
2028-2029
2029-2030
Poetry/Literacy Club Advisor
per year (shared)
$1,591.35
$1,639.09
$1,680.07
$1,722.07
$1,765.12
Culinary Club Advisor
per year (shared)
$1,591.35
$1,639.09
$1,680.07
$1,722.07
$1,765.12
Art Club Advisor
per year
$1,060.90
$1,092.73
$1,120.05
$1,148.05
$1,176.75
Oceanography Club Advisor
per year (shared)
$3,120.90
$3,214.53
$3,294.89
$3,377.26
$3,461.69
Student of the Month/Elementary Assembly Coordinator
per year (shared)
$1,060.90
$1,092.73
$1,120.05
$1,148.05
$1,176.75
Assistant Director of Musical
per year (shared)
$1,591.35
$1,639.09
$1,680.07
$1,722.07
$1,765.12
Secondary Homework/Detention Advisor (not to exceed 4 days a week)
per day
$75.32
$77.58
$79.52
$81.51
$83.55
Friends of Rachel's Advisor
per year (shared)
$1,591.35
$1,639.09
$1,680.07
$1,722.07
$1,765.12
Band/Music Program
Hourly rate of teacher's yearly salary
Genders and Sexualities Club Advisor
per year
$1,060.90
$1,092.73
$1,120.05
$1,148.05
$1,176.75
World Languages National Honor Society Advisor
per year
$1,591.35
$1,639.09
$1,680.07
$1,722.07
$1,765.12
Chaperones (non-advisor chaperones for trips, programs during non-school hours)
Chaperone (less than 4 hours)
per event
$68.96
$71.03
$72.80
$74.62
$76.49
Chaperone (4 or more hours, includes overnight)
per day
$212.18
$218.55
$224.01
$229.61
$235.35
Extra (substitute coverage) coverage, over and above teacher's day (when substitute not available)
Extra substitute coverage
Base year rate/200 divided by 6
hours divided by 60 minutes times
minutes per period
Extracurricular programs and other Teacher Assignments
PreK - 2nd Grade Chairperson
per year
$4,120.00
$4,243.60
$4,349.69
$4,458.43
$4,569.89
3rd - 5th Grade Chairperson
per year
$4,120.00
$4,243.60
$4,349.69
$4,458.43
$4,569.89
6th - 12th Grade Humanities Chairperson (ELA/Studies/Foreign Languages)
per year
$4,120.00
$4,243.60
$4,349.69
$4,458.43
$4,569.89
6th - 12th Grade STEM Chairperson (Math/Science/Tech/Business)
per year
$4,120.00
$4,243.60
$4,349.69
$4,458.43
$4,569.89
6th - 12th Grade Arts Chairperson (Art/Music/Physical Education)
per year
$4,120.00
$4,243.60
$4,349.69
$4,458.43
$4,569.89
Public Relations Liaison (weekly news to newspapers)
per year
$1,060.90
$1,092.73
$1,120.05
$1,148.05
$1,176.75
Newsletter (4 per year, including summer)
per year
$3,394.88
$3,496.73
$3,584.14
$3,673.75
$3,765.59
Culture Club (2)
per year (shared)
$3,182.70
$3,278.18
$3,360.14
$3,444.14
$3,530.24
Communication Arts (2)
per year (shared)
$3,182.70
$3,278.18
$3,360.14
$3,444.14
$3,530.24
New Teacher Mentor
per year
$1,591.35
$1,639.09
$1,680.07
$1,722.07
$1,765.12
Yearbook Advisors (2)
per year (shared)
$3,304.70
$3,403.84
$3,488.94
$3,576.16
$3,665.57
Non-instructional duties
per hour
$64.71
$66.66
$68.32
$70.03
$71.78
Home tutoring
per hour
$71.08
$73.21
$75.04
$76.92
$78.84
Alternative High School
per hour
$71.08
$73.21
$75.04
$76.92
$78.84
Curriculum Writing
per hour
$64.71
$66.66
$68.32
$70.03
$71.78
43

=== PDF PAGE 46 ===
Title
Pay Frequency
2025-2026
2026-2027
2027-2028
2028-2029
2029-2030
Summer Programs (as developed annually)
MA Step 1 hourly rate
Summer School (instructional for AIS, special services or credit bearing)
Hourly rate of teacher's yearly salary
Arts in Education
per year
$1,057.72
$1,089.45
$1,116.69
$1,144.60
$1,173.22
National Honor Society
per year
$1,591.35
$1,639.09
$1,680.07
$1,722.07
$1,765.12
Teacher of PD/Inservice
per year (and 15 credit hours)
$1,591.35
$1,639.09
$1,680.07
$1,722.07
$1,765.12
Teacher of Adult Education
Hourly rate of teacher's yearly salary
plus 10% for travel
ASPIRE program (2 people)
per day
$64.71
$66.66
$68.32
$70.03
$71.78
Senior Class Advisor
per year
$4,243.60
$4,370.91
$4,480.18
$4,592.19
$4,706.99
Junior Class Advisor
per year
$4,031.42
$4,152.36
$4,256.17
$4,362.58
$4,471.64
44
